---
layout: post
title: Query Tables
---

The Query Tables operation returns a list of tables under the specified account.

###Request

The **Query Tables** request may be constructed as follows:

| Method        | Request URI   | HTTP Version  |
| :------------- |:-------------| :-------------|
| GET           | https://localhost/Tables | HTTP/1.1|

----
####Request Headers

The following table describes required and optional request headers.
 
| Request header 	| Description |
|:-------------------|:------------|
|Authorization | Required. Specifies the authentication scheme, account name, and signature. For more information, see Authentication for the Azure Storage Services. |
|Date | Required. Specifies the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) for the request. For more information, see Authentication for the Azure Storage Services. |
|Content-Location | Required. Specifies the type of the database:
    azure  |
| Accept |  Required. Specifies the accepted content type of the response payload. Possible values are:
    application/json
|

----
####Request Body

The request body specifies the name of the table to be created. Note that table names must conform to the naming restrictions.

The request body is an json entity set, which can be expressed as JSON. 

**JSON**

The request body as a JSON feed has the following general format.
{% highlight json %}
{ 
    "TableName":"mytable"
}

{% endhighlight %}

----

###Response

The response includes an HTTP status code, a set of response headers, and a response body.

----
####Status Code

A successful operation returns status code 204 (No Content).

For information about status codes, see Status and Error Codes.

----

####Response Headers

The response for this operation includes the following headers. The response may also include additional standard HTTP headers. All standard headers conform to the HTTP/1.1 protocol specification.
 
| Response header |	Description |
| :--------------- | :----------- |
| Date | A UTC date/time value generated by the service that indicates the time at which the response was initiated. |
| Content-Type | Indicates the content type of the payload. Value depends on the request Accept header. Possible values are:

    application/json

For more formation about valid content types, see Payload Format.

----

####Response Body

If the request includes the Prefer header with the value return-no-content, no response body is returned. Otherwise, the response body is an json entity set.

----

#####JSON

Here is a sample JSON response body for the Query Tables operations.


{% highlight json %}

{

    "TableName":"mytable"

}

{% endhighlight %}

----

####Authorization

Only the account owner may call this operation.

----

####Remarks

A query against the Table service may return a maximum of 1,000 tables at one time and may execute for a maximum of five seconds. If the result set contains more than 1,000 tables, the response includes a custom header containing the x-bolt-continuation-NextTableName continuation token. The continuation token may be used to construct a subsequent request for the next page of data. For more information about continuation tokens, see Pagination.
